just like to introduce you
as the
the author of
tripping over the truth the return of
metabolic theory of cancer
eliminates new and hopeful path to a
cure
this is uh travis christopherson i
saw that you also have over 200 reviews
on amazon five stars and i don't think
i've seen any five star books not even
my son's harry potter has gotten five
stars so that is an impressive feat
there thank you for joining us
thank you thanks for having me
so i saw your
interview on the keto summit and
that you know you also like to
exercise say the least so we thought
that we'd send you
a sample of the ketone monoester the
elusive never before made commercially
ketone monoester and
just want to get your take on it what
you thought i've got a bunch of little
questions about you know your experience
um yeah first of all what were you
expecting
to happen like did you you know did you
have any expectations
well i you know
i actually did had pretty low
expectations to be honest because i was
going to compare it to
you know my my sort of cheat for getting
the ketosis has always been mct oils
which you know is a very mild boost you
really don't feel
it mentally at least you don't feel it
profoundly mentally
okay so i kind of you know didn't know
what to expect low expectations and
and when i do the ketogenic diet i sort
of do it on and off you know i'll do it
for three four months and then i stay
low carb but
i don't do like a really strict
compliant ketogenic diet all the time
and when i do do it i have a hard time
i'm one of those guys that have a hard
time making ketones so even if i do it
extremely strict low protein you know
lots of fats mct oil
when i check you know my i usually check
urine strips and it's always
it's always small i don't i don't do
blood all the time just too much of a
nuisance like on under when you say
small you mean under 0.5 or like under
1.0
under 0.5 yeah like urine strips will go
tray small moderate large and and it i
think it it walks pretty close to the
path of blood ketones you know there's
been correlative studies so it's a good
rough approximation for it okay and um
and then so yeah then i took it and uh
what time did you take it and what'd you
have for food that day
well i i so i didn't eat any carbs that
day i didn't need any carbs the night
before like you suggested okay and i was
outside it was the afternoon i took it
about
two o'clock
and i was outside with my son and we
were we're making these concrete
countertops i'm trying to get him in a
little tray he's 16 years old and i'm
trying to introduce him to the
entrepreneurial spirit so we're outside
pouring these countertops i forgot i
took it
and i just noticed that i was just you
know kind of
strangely on my game and get more and
more excited about this project
and you're lifting entire countertops is
that right you were listening
well we were mixing concrete so we were
going you know 50 pound bags and it's
really it's a quick process you got to
you got to cycle through it fast you got
three minutes to get it poured so we're
going back and forth and that you know
just kind of felt a um
just a i you know what's the word for it
that peak peak energy peak when you're
on your peak here some people use the
word zone
the zone that's it that's what i was
looking for right so i'm in the zone
um went inside and then i remembered i
took it and i was telling my wife i go i
feel insanely like just my my mental
energy is just off the charts and my you
know
and she was kind of laughing at me and i
went down to talk to my son and it was
explaining to him what we took or what i
took
and then um
and then i just had i had to work out i
had such a surplus of not jittery energy
but just so is it like caffeine caffeine
energy
caffeine
no jitter it was a little bit foreign
that it was so
high
but i wouldn't compare it to caffeine
where your jittery it was just what we
gave you had not had no caffeine in it
no sugar and no b12 in it just to uh
yeah
right just yeah
uh so i started yeah i jogged it was
about then it was about let's see two
three about a couple hours later so i
jogged did a bunch of air squats like
four or five sets of push-ups more air
squats
and again i almost felt like i had to do
it i just it felt like there was
something that i almost needed to burn
off
and um then i started calming down
you know by about eight o'clock or nine
o'clock
and then i slept like a baby and when i
am in ketosis that's one of the things i
notice that when i'm doing the ketogenic
diet i'll sleep and have much more vivid
dreams yeah and sleep better and i i
slept like that that night
so and i woke up the next morning and
you know felt wonderful no hangover so i
you know no no crash no like caffeine no
crash no
right which you're taught your whole
life there's no free lunch and there's
there you know everything you do that is
euphoric you pay a price typically
what were your expectations on the taste
because there are some rumors floating
around of people that have tried it and
how was how was your taste experience
taste experience yeah how did it taste
you know i i didn't
it didn't it's definitely foreign it's
you know it's got a um
there's some bitterness and and
it's not you know it's not it's a taste
you're used to but it didn't it didn't
bother me too much i felt a little bit
of gastrointestinal you know a little
transient upset
after about five minutes gi compared to
like you know your first time taking a
tablespoon of mct oil
right yeah nothing like that nothing
like that okay so just nothing like that
maybe like a minute what i experienced
not to lead you on but a one minute
twinge that you go huh what's that and
then you know a minute later it was gone
that's that's what i've felt
yep yep and you're right about the
aftertaste there is aftertaste if you
don't
i took it over like three or four
different you know
poles off of it and if you i pulled the
last one i took a carbonated beverage
afterwards and that got rid of the
aftertaste great and have you heard any
rumors or or stories online about it
tasting just absolutely unbearable
i haven't no oh you haven't okay i
haven't looked i haven't looked though
but i've heard
you know the peter attila yeah
it was yeah his right
you know
vivid story because he didn't mix it
with anything and i kind of
compare that to someone having a
margarita party serving everyone
tequilas and saying bottoms up and then
you know oops we forgot to put in the
margarita mix like of course it's not
right taste
tastes great and it's not your typical
sports drink as far as you know yummy
flavoring that you'd want for you know
yeah it's interesting i i'm liking it to
like a shot you're right it's like a
shot of whatever you want to say tequila
you just got that kind of like you know
you
make the curdle face and then it's over
yeah
the the wince that wins um right so
there's been a lot of talk about it
being for endurance do you have any
thoughts because you didn't necessarily
do you know a
multi-hour run or anything how did you
feel and what do you think it might what
applications you think there might be
for bodybuilders sprinters and
and you know the non-endurance side of
the equation
well the endurance side i you know i'd
love to test that further because i
there's no way you couldn't that surplus
of energy wouldn't translate to
i don't see how it couldn't translate to
better performance right and i what i
notice is when i'm on the ketogenic diet
you know i
i liken that the the beach paper to
where per unit oxygen you get more bang
for your buck and ketones and you can
feel that
when you're in ketosis you when you're
when you hold your breath it's such a
beautiful
obvious translation of the biochemistry
well i think i mean you have more people
test that out because that's an easy
enough test hold your breath and twice
that's that
that's what i felt when i when i took
the shot i did air squats but i couldn't
i couldn't get myself to breathe hard
so you just feel this immediate you know
a better efficiency with utilization of
oxygen i felt that and i didn't tell you
i did do some urine strips afterwards
okay and it was it was completely off
the charts purple which i've never been
in my entire life okay
yeah
and what's the highest you've ever you
said in in your diet you've only gotten
like to the the second of the of the
five
meter readings right yeah yeah like
small small which i i can't remember
what that translates one millimolar
perhaps
right it's the highest i've ever been so
would you consider this uh the real
thing the real deal or just uh oh my god
yeah for sure i've never i didn't know
you know of course i've heard about
these coming for some time
about um
and dr vicha's papers about them
the proposal of them you know it's to me
are just seminal papers i've comb
through those i can't remember i don't
know how many times i've read them
but to actually you know experience that
after having read that for so long was
just phenomenal it's it's you know
beyond the real deal
wow and you mentioned that you actually
had some concern that
your mental clarity might be a signal of
something can you go into that
well yeah i just if if you are
yeah for me you know if taking this
alternative fuel when i'm in
a typical carbohydrate diet a western
diet and i'm burning glucose
if i'm that much better
after you know forcing my body into
ketosis it just makes me concerned that
that i'm not using glucose efficiently
that there could be some you know the
beginning of
carbohydrate intolerance or whatever you
want to say
you know so it just it shows you how
you don't you don't realize you're aging
like you are the slow pernicious process
like holy that's how i should feel
all the time
and another thing
i'm 45. okay all right another thing i
noticed too is right away is my vision
goes to high def
so
one of the things that i noticed i
thought that i was wearing serengeti
driving lenses and i had to kind of like
touch my eyes because
serengeti lenses will make it so when
you're driving it really feels like it
like you say hd and i was i kept on
looking around i'm like what is going on
so one of my
upcoming experiments because the number
of experiments like steve has said is
just going to be endless
um is
taking the drink or going to the eye
doctor taking the drink coming back to
the eye doctor and say hey i'm back
again the guys are going to say what are
you you know what are you trying to do
you can't make your vision better
and see if i can quantify
that that vision so it's great to hear
that you you notice uh
you know the hd
that hd feeling yeah yeah characterized
i think when when i took it the first
time
it's not
i don't know if it was
not exactly acuity
i couldn't see
uh maybe better on the chart everything
just seemed sharper
that's it that's how i would describe it
too
i'm not sure you couldn't see better on
the chart you know
maybe you could i think you might be
able to see that last line you know
which way is the e turning and uh maybe
i mean it's worth yeah it's an easy
enough test that and the breath test i
need to add because it's kind of hard to
quantify you know how did you feel um
and some people don't feel anything and
that's gonna be a tough thing for some
people if you know if they go to buy
this and you know they don't feel
anything they can get frustrated um
but it's about how your body
takes the different fuels and we also
don't know what's going to happen after
you take this you know
a dozen times there have been people
that have taken it for five years in one
year
and we have their
comments on it but you know will you
become more adapted to using ketones
another question is if someone is low
carb are they going to be
is it going to affect them more than
someone that has the average american
diet uh you know if there's endless you
know different
bio hackers biohacker type tests to
doing this
there is just just yeah you guys you
know
there's a ton of
sorting through the the most efficient
way to do it and
and all that is it good with just a
standard diet is it better with a low
carb diet is it better with a ketogenic
diet right
right well one thing that
we've been told is to actually try to
avoid mct oil with it because they both
create ketones so you're kind of
competing for the same pathway
so you know that's you know another
experiment to be done so you're in the
world of metabolic therapy do you want
to
do you care to hypothesize of you know
how it might be
used in your line of work
oh wow
you know this is to me this is just the
frontier the new frontier of and and as
i was saying that that
where it all converges is just aging
itself and that's what to me is so
exciting is we parse all these diseases
alzheimer's diabetes you know
and
parkinson's cancer into distinct
diseases and attack them separately and
spend all this money when in fact the
real pernicious cause of everything
they're all side effects of aging
so
what interests me about is not just the
energy substrate
which you know to cleaner burning fuel
there's less ros and so forth i think
that's well established but the fact
that it acts epigenetically through
histone the acetylase inhibition
which they just showed in a paper with c
elegans extend the lifespan by 20
beta hydroxybutyrate did with it through
that pathway so i think that application
you know is where it gets exciting for
me because with drugs you know drugs
like metformin that
are just so
mind-boggling to me the fact that you
can basically you know essentially cure
type 2 diabetes through it through a
french lilac plant an extract from a
french lilac plant you know how the hell
is it doing that
so i i think that ketones
this product you know ketones in general
your product that's where the the true
you know this wonderment lies is it it's
going to converge on so many diseases
and if it
probably i can see someday just being
prescribed at a certain age to everybody
you know as a person right now it's a
sports drink so you know we're laser
focused on that but you know other
people can start you know thinking about
the the future
yeah
yeah great yeah i mean the preventative
aspect alone beyond performance too is
where it gets exciting yeah and how was
your i forgot to ask you how was your
recovery the following morning as far as
just muscle fatigue would you normally
did you do a type of workout that would
have you know made you feel something
the next day
yeah i feel you know
it wasn't my normal routine so i have a
hard time really comparing apples to
apples but i felt i felt great the next
morning you know totally refreshed no no
residual stuff at all no soreness
no soreness no you know i probably
didn't do enough to get real sore but um
i would say that i probably did feel a
little better than i than i normally
would have great steve can you think of
anything else we can wrap this up
i think we're good